This report investigates privacy, safety and security issues on Discord, the Voice over Internet Protocol, Instant Messaging and Digital Distribution application with regard to the experience of users and their perceptions. Discord has grown significantly over the past few years past its original intended use for gaming to become a home for communities across a wide variety of areas. With this growth though, there has been a dramatic increase recently in abuse on the platform, user reports and bans, and criminal and other malicious activity. There is very little existing research around Discord and what there is tends to be around digital forensics and experimenting with the platform as a tool for online education. To gain more insight, literature around other similar VoIP or social media platforms was looked at to try and gain more understanding about common issues on these sorts of problems and what user perceptions and concerns tend to be.

A survey of Discord users was carried out to find out how they engaged with the available privacy and safety settings on the platform, their user experience, and their awareness of privacy, security and safety issues on the platform. The survey found that many users did not have two-factor authentication enabled or keep their privacy and safety settings updated regularly. With regards to user experience on the platform 31 out of the 51 survey participants (60.8%) said that they had experienced or witness harassment on the platform. The most common forms of harassment or reasons for reporting or blocking other users were bullying, sexual harassment, prejudices and phishing. Many survey participants had been exposed to phishing or other scams on the platform. Lastly responses showed that 60.8% had posted sensitive personal information on the platform, but only 14% removed posts before leaving servers where otherwise the posts are left for others to see.

The main conclusions to be drawn from this research is that attention needs to be drawn to the importance of privacy, security and safety on the platform. Users need to be encouraged to interact and engage with the platforms built in privacy and safety features. To combat harassment on the platform server owners should establish a strict set of rules, and ensure they are enforced. Lastly perceptions need to be changed about how dangerous it is to post sensitive personal information about yourself on Discord, and if you do you need to manage it carefully and remove it when you leave. There are many dangers and threats to users on Discord, and users need to take these threats seriously and not simply rely on the platform to keep you safe.

Keywords: Discord, Safety, Security, VoIP, Community
