**Conclusion**
This research set out to investigate privacy, safety and security on the Discord platform and user perceptions and experience with regards to these themes. Discord has grown significantly in recent as a platform for gaming and various other types of communities, and alongside that there has been a dramatic increase in reports and bans of users and servers. Privacy, safety and security on the platform are more important than ever, and users should be aware and mindful of possible threats and ways to mitigate them.

The main implications of this research are that awareness needs to be raised as to how important privacy, safety and security are on the platform and that they should be taken more seriously. More users should make use of the built-in privacy and safety settings like two-factor authentication; and when joining larger servers users should not allow direct messages from strangers to help prevent phishing attempts. Users should be actively encouraged to report harassment to server or Discord admins to help deal with cyberbullying and abuse on the platform. More care must be taken about the information users post online and they must remember that the ownership to remove it is on them. Awareness of these issues and engagement with the settings available need to be encouraged now, or bad habits surrounding them may be passed along to new users coming to the platform. Lastly, server owners should be encouraged to create a set of strict rules for members to abide by and enforcement of them needs to take place to mitigate bullying and harassment. Raising awareness of these and encouraging more people to engage in these practices will go a long way to making Discord a safer place.

*Further Research*

As part of the research conducted, participants were asked about areas they thought would be worth investigating into further or that were missing from the survey. The most promising areas to look at are likely Discord bots using the Discord API, and the different types of phishing and scams occurring on the platform. To add to these, along with the types of phishing and scams to investigate lots of servers were deleted for cybercriminal activity and the distribution of malware. These could be researched together to look at the kinds of cybercrime perpetrated on the platform and the best ways to combat them and stop them being spread. The other area that researching could be greatly beneficial is server rules and moderation. Server rules and enforcement of them are a good way to prevent and mitigate harassment and bullying on the platform, but the best ways to do this especially with regards to enforcing the rules are unclear. There are social pressures with individual admins or server owners enforcing the rules which is more of a sociological issue, but it could also be possible to have some moderation be automated by using a bot.

*Critical Review*

Overall, I think this project has been successful. Discord as an area for research is quite original and there is very little existing research into privacy, safety and security issues on the platform with regards to the users. There is a clear gap in the research in this area to be filled, and the research is also warranted due to the growing popularity of the platform and the dramatic increases in dangers and threats recorded in Discord’s transparency report. Using research on similar platforms to guide this research was a good idea, and it definitely gave insight as to how to approach researching Discord. 

With that being said, in hindsight I believe that execution of the research survey could have been greatly improved. When asking about server types and sizes this was separate to the later answers in the survey about user experience. Ideally it would be possible to answer the questions for harassment separately for the different servers they are in in order to compare them. It may have been more ideal to use interviews instead of a survey as a research methodology to gain a deeper understanding of how users think about the areas investigated, but finding volunteers and organising interviews over the summer would have been very difficult. A lot of the reasoning behind using a survey was to reach as many participants as possible. This is another area that could be greatly improved as 51 participants is quite low and prevents certain kinds of analysis from being reliable. The plan to distribute the survey and snowball it throughout society Discord servers at different universities was flawed because they have much less traffic over the summer and this was not considered before distribution. Lastly, the research in this report is quite broad and further research could be narrowed down to more specific areas to gain a greater depth of understanding on them, but with little existing research to work with I think this is acceptable. 
