**Suitable Research Methods**

Following the review of literature, the aims for the is research were decided upon which can be found in the introduction and background sections at the start of this report. There were also constraints that had to be considered when selecting a research method to use. In 2020/2021 the impact of COVID-19 on the ability to conduct research safely, which largely rules out the possibility of doing any kind of in-person research. Sample size was a very relevant factor to consider, given that the investigation is looking at user trends and trying to draw conclusions about and identify patterns in the data. The sample size needs to be as large as possible to be able for the data to make reliable evidence for any conclusions to be made. With these in mind a methodology with which to carry out the research needed to be chosen. 

*Interviews*

When deciding on how to go about performing the research, there were several possible methods that could have been suitable. The first option considered was conducting interviews with a range of Discord users. Pre-determining a set of questions to ask, but with the possibility to expand on a point or answer of particular interest. The adaptability provided allows for more spontaneity, and it may well be easier for the participant to convey expression by voice rather than text, and it is possible to see an interviewees reaction as well as their opinion on a question. One problem is that interviews are quite time-consuming to conduct, which limits the number of participants in the research. When asking about their experience on the platform, in particular about harassment or cyber bullying it is possible that the interviewee reacts negatively towards a question or feels uncomfortable. While the interviewer may be able to make note of this and steer the interview away from the subject, it is more likely to affect an individual in an interview than through a less personal method like a survey. 

*Focus Groups*

Another research method that was considered was a focus group of around 10 Discord users to have a discussion on a set of topics around safety, security and privacy on Discord. Similar to an interview in that there is a pre-determined list of topics to have discussion around, but less structured allowing more opportunity for follow up not only by the host but also the other participants over a particular point in order to obtain more detailed insights. Logistically organising a focus group is a bit of a challenge, as it will require setting up a meeting online with all of the participants at once and finding a time slot, they are all available and willing to participate. Doing an online focus group can also be challenging because there are more distractions during the session. Additionally, it is possible for one or two voices to be more dominant during conversation, and this could be exemplified online where it is less obvious how much everyone is engaging. One last consideration is that when it comes to potentially challenging topics like harassment and their experience online, it’s possible that if one individual opens up about an incident this will encourage the others too; it’s also possible to have the opposite affect though depending on the person and it’s hard to tell which. 

*Surveys*

The last method considered for this research was a survey, a list of questions that could easily be completed in a relatively small amount of time. The largest upside of a survey is ease of access, as it is trivial to create one and distribute it online, and this is important as ever during the global pandemic. This allows a much greater reach when desiring a mass of responses to gather data to draw conclusions from. Asking participants to spend 5-10 minutes filling out a survey should be easier than them having to set out time to dedicate to conducting an interview or focus group.  With that being said, it is hard to tell what the response rate will be to a survey and how many participants you will have can be difficult to estimate. However, it is possible to mitigate this by trying to keep the time taken to complete the survey low by having a concise list of questions. Another advantage of using surveys is the ability for the participants to remain anonymous, especially when it comes to more challenging issues. The big disadvantage of a survey compared to the other methods is that there isn’t an ability to ask any follow up questions after they’ve completed the survey, which could be useful when asking more open questions. One solution to this is to have an option to leave contact information for a potential follow up, but they may well not be interested in doing so.

*Chosen Methodology*

After considering all of the methods discussed, it was decided to use a survey to perform the research. This would allow the greatest potential reach in terms of participants as opposed to one of the other methods, in order to be able to draw more reliable conclusions from the trends in the data. The survey would consist primarily of closed questions in order to keep it short, but also have a few open questions to try and gain some extra insight and detail on specific subjects. Additionally, the degree of anonymity provided in a survey would hopefully allow participants to be more open about their experience on the platform and interaction with the different features. In case of anyone being affected by questions around harassment, a short list of resources was compiled to help them if they reached out. 

*Development of Questions*

A copy of the final survey can be found in the appendix of this report; in addition to the questions discussed below there was also a consent form at the start of the survey confirming that the participant was an adult and explaining that the survey was voluntary and how the data would be used. In total there are 25 questions in the survey and it should take users between 5 and 10 minutes to complete.

The opening section of the survey is to do with how the user interacts with the Discord platform. What method they use to access the platform: desktop application, mobile app or through a web browser; how often they use Discord; what types and sizes of servers they are part of; and what roles they have had in those servers from member to server owner. The idea behind these questions is to gain context for their answers to the rest of the survey, and create the possibility for comparison in experiences based on the different sorts of servers or ways they engage with the platform.  

Then second set of questions are to do with how the participant uses Discord’s built-in privacy and safety settings available within the application: Whether or not they have two-factor authentication enabled on their account (needing to verify using a code sent by email or text message alongside the user’s password) for additional account security; How often they look at their privacy settings; and whether or not they have seen Discord’s transparency report. The first two questions in the section are to simply see how they interact with the privacy settings in Discord itself, while the question about the transparency report tells whether they are aware of media about Discords privacy safety and security outside of the platform. Next, what communication methods on Discord they use; whether they allow direct messages from non-friends; and whether they have been targeted with a phishing (or other scam) message. The communications questions provide context for the next section on user experience, and it’s also important to be able to compare users who use different mediums of communication. The last question in this section about phishing or scam messages is to find out whether the participant has been targeted by cybercrime on the platform.

The next set of questions are about the users experience with harassment on the platform, either personally or something that they’ve witnessed happen to other users. The questions focus on general harassment and forms of harassment, and blocking and/or reporting users and the reasons for the action. Most of the questions in the survey are yes/no/maybe but here the answers for forms of harassment taken place or reasons for reporting are blocking are left open ended. Each is separated into whether or not they have and then if they don’t mind disclosing, what form or reason was. Additionally, when looking at reporting other users to Discord admins it was decided to also ask if action was taken (to their knowledge), and whether or not they were satisfied with it. These questions were to look at what forms of harassment or problems users experience on the platform, with the idea to point out what and how these things take place most often and to an extent how they are handled. Importantly it is made clear in the explanation and consent form for the survey that all the questions are completely optional and can be left blank, as these particular questions could affect them. 

Then the survey looks at the user’s data on Discord, how they manage it and their perceptions around it. The first question in this section is whether or not the participant has posted sensitive personal information about themselves in a Discord server. ‘Personal’ is quite subjective so an explanation is included and points towards things like political opinions, beliefs, finances as well as several other examples. This is simply determining if the user is comfortable posting this kind of information online, to provide context to the next questions: “Have you left a Discord server?” and “Did you remove any messages or posts you made before you left?”. These questions are important because when you leave a server, any posts you have made are left there for anyone who joins that server to see. If a participant is willing to post sensitive personal information, do they remove these kinds of posts when they leave. Finally, the last question in this portion of the survey is simply whether or not they are aware that the posts remain when they leave, to give more context to the previous questions and insight into how the user perceives posting or removing the posts. 

The final two questions of the survey are more open ended, and look to gain information for potential future research or investigation. “What privacy, safety or security feature would you like to see added to Discord?” is intended to make the participant think more about the features available, what they think is missing, and what they think could be implemented better. For example, two-factor authentication makes your account much more secure but is quite troublesome for the user. The other open-ended question is “Is there anything you think that has been missed in this survey, relating to Discord Safety, Security and Privacy that you think is worth investigating?”. This question is self-explanatory and its purpose is to find what areas of investigation Discord users are most interested in. There was also a possibility with these questions to do follow-up interviews, as there is a space at the end for the participant to volunteer their email address if they desired. 

*Pilot Testing*

Before sending the survey out to potential participants, pilot tests were done to ensure that the duration was as expected; that the questions flowed well from one to the next; and that the questions made sense to the participant. Through these it was decided to provide additional information for some of the terms used, as the participant may not necessarily be familiar. Additionally, questions were added afterwards to allow the participants to expand on previous answers which originally there was not opportunity for.

*Distribution*

The primary method for distributing the survey was through Discord itself using university society Discords, and academic channels in national university hub Discord servers such as that for the National University Esports League. Many of these Discords for students have areas for academic research, to share papers and surveys or find participants for other types of research. To increase the reach of the survey representatives from different University society Discords were also contacted and asked to pass the survey on to their members. The survey was also distributed through other smaller Discord communities, and finally to other MSc students at DeMontfort University via email.

After the initial distribution of the survey, it was boosted multiple times over the course of two weeks and an attempt was made to snowball it to more university Discords to reach more potential participants but the number of responses at the end only totalled 51 which was lower than expected. This is likely a result of the research being conducted over the summer when many people are travelling back home and spending time with family and friends, and there is a lull in activity amongst university societies and less events being organised in university hub Discords resulting in much less traffic. 
